---
layout: post
title: "What's New for 2012"
permalink: /entry/what-s-new-for-2012.html
comments: false
author: Vic Cherubini
---

The response I have received regarding authoring a book on enterprise PHP has been outstanding. I received at least twenty emails asking me to please write a book on large scale PHP projects. There is clearly a demand for it.

**However, I am not going to be the one to do it.** It took a lot of thinking and reflection to arrive at that answer, but I am confident it is the correct one.

Like I said in my previous post, PHP has been a near daily part of my life for the better part of twelve years. I no longer feel PHP is moving in a direction I want to as a developer, and it is time I divorce myself from the language as much as possible.

I have a confession to make: for as long as I have been programming in PHP, I have never felt like a programmer. Never felt like a true, salt-of-the-earth programmer. I felt like a scripter, always hacking together scripts built in PHP to get the job done. I became very fluent in the language and its nuances, but I never felt I could compare to the big boys: C, C++, Java, even Ruby and Python. I do not regret my decision to become a PHPer, but **I do regret not becoming more fluent in other languages sooner**. PHP is an incredibly useful language to know. You can guarantee yourself a job just about any time, and you will most likely have gainful employment for a long time. PHP is here to stay. I work with code now that was written in the PHP3 days, and it is still used in production. Twenty years from now, we will still be working on PHP scripts.

There are no shortage of detractors for PHP out there. They rightly point out many problems that still plague the language and ecosystem. I agree with most of them, so I will not re-print them here. Suffice to say, although the language is over fifteen years old, it has not matured like a fifteen year old language should have.

Another simpler answer for not writing the book is time. 2012 is going to be incredibly busy for me as I am building a small [web application consultancy](http://brightmarch.com), learning Java, Scala, and the [Play Framework](http://playframework.org), building [Strungg](http://strungg.com), re-formatting my [small firearm business](http://www.dallasshootingsupplies.com), building another unnamed web application, reading more fiction, and spending more time with my wife and son.

The Internet is the single most exciting and world-changing piece of technology I have ever had the chance to work with. I enjoy building it more and more every day. Think about that for a moment: *every day you contribute positively to building the most important innovation of the 20th (and 21st) Century*. That is pretty mind blowing. I am going to continue doing that, just not with PHP.

I implore you to do the same, regardless of what language you are most proficient in. If you craft in Ruby, look into Groovy and Grails, if you build in Java, look into Clojure, if you hack in Python, give Java a chance. There are so many exciting languages and technologies out there, and to stay sealed up into one single ecosystem is a mistake.
